= Commentable

This is a really simple ActiveRecord plugin that allows models to be commented.

Commentable is tightly coupled to an User model. If you don't have it, there's no game for you here.

== Installation

  gem install commentable

== Usage

First, you'll have to create the comments table. Run `rails generate migration create_comments` and add the following code:

  class CreateComments < ActiveRecord::Migration
    def self.up
      create_table :comments do |t|
        t.text :body, :formatted_body
        t.references :commentable, :polymorphic => true
        t.references :user
        t.timestamps
      end

      add_index :comments, [:commentable_id, :commentable_type], :name => "index_on_commentable"
      add_index :comments, [:commentable_id, :commentable_type, :user_id], :name => "index_on_commentable_and_user"
    end

    def self.down
      drop_table :comments
    end
  end

Run `rake db:migrate` to apply this new migration.

Now, add the `commentable` macro to all models that can be commented.

  class Task < ActiveRecord::Base
    commentable
  end

This will create an association called `comments`. You can now create comments like any ActiveRecord model.

  comment = @task.comments.create(:body => "Awesome job!", :user => @user)

There's a shortcut for that.

  comment = @task.add_comment(:body => "Awesome job!", :user => @user)

You can have formatted comments. This is specially useful if you want to provide Markdown support, for instance. Just use the `:format` option passing any variable that responds to the `call` method. The block's return will be used as the `formatted_body` attribute.

  class Task < ActiveRecord::Base
    commentable :format => proc {|comment| Redcarpet.new(comment.body.to_s).to_html}
  end

<b>Final note:</b> remember to add a `comments_count` column to every single model that will be commentable. This is required by the Comment model.

== Maintainer

* Nando Vieira (http://nandovieira.com.br)

== License

(The MIT License)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
